docs/intro.asciidoc, before:

[[intro]]
== Introduction

Centralized application logging with the Elastic stack made easy.

[role="screenshot"]
image:https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2163464/62682932-9cac3600-b9bd-11e9-9cc3-39e907280f8e.png[]

[float]
=== What is ECS?

Elastic Common Schema (ECS) defines a common set of fields for ingesting data into Elasticsearch.
For more information about ECS, visit the {ecs-ref}/ecs-reference.html[ECS Reference Documentation].

[float]
=== What is ECS logging?

ECS loggers are plugins for your favorite logging library.
They make it easy to format your logs into ECS-compatible JSON. For example:
[source,json]
----
{"@timestamp":"2019-08-06T12:09:12.375Z", "log.level": "INFO", "message":"Tomcat started on port(s): 8080 (http) with context path ''", "service.name":"spring-petclinic","process.thread.name":"restartedMain","log.logger":"org.springframework.boot.web.embedded.tomcat.TomcatWebServer"}
{"@timestamp":"2019-08-06T12:09:12.379Z", "log.level": "INFO", "message":"Started PetClinicApplication in 7.095 seconds (JVM running for 9.082)", "service.name":"spring-petclinic","process.thread.name":"restartedMain","log.logger":"org.springframework.samples.petclinic.PetClinicApplication"}
{"@timestamp":"2019-08-06T14:08:40.199Z", "log.level":"DEBUG", "message":"init find form", "service.name":"spring-petclinic","process.thread.name":"http-nio-8080-exec-8","log.logger":"org.springframework.samples.petclinic.owner.OwnerController","transaction.id":"28b7fb8d5aba51f1","trace.id":"2869b25b5469590610fea49ac04af7da"}
----

// To do: Update these links to be documentation links
[float]
=== Get started

Refer to the installation instructions of the individual loggers:

* {ecs-logging-dotnet-ref}/setup.html[.NET]
* Go: {ecs-logging-go-zap-ref}/setup.html[zap], {ecs-logging-go-logrus-ref}/setup.html[logrus]
* {ecs-logging-java-ref}/setup.html[Java]
* Node.js: {ecs-logging-nodejs-ref}/morgan.html[morgan], {ecs-logging-nodejs-ref}/pino.html[pino], {ecs-logging-nodejs-ref}/winston.html[winston]
* {ecs-logging-php-ref}/setup.html[PHP]
* {ecs-logging-python-ref}/installation.html[Python]
* {ecs-logging-ruby-ref}/setup.html[Ruby]

[float]
=== Why ECS logging?

*Simplicity: no manual parsing*::
+
--
Logs arrive pre-formatted, pre-enriched and ready to add value, making problems quicker and easier to identify.
No more tedious grok parsing that has to be customized for every application.
--

*Decently human-readable JSON structure*::
+
--
The first three fields are `@timestamp`, `log.level` and `message`.
This lets you easily read the logs in a terminal without needing a tool that converts the logs to plain-text.
--

*Enjoy the benefits of a common schema*::
+
--
Use the Kibana {observability-guide}/monitor-logs.html[Logs app] without additional configuration.

Using a common schema across different services and teams makes it possible create reusable dashboards and avoids {ref}/mapping.html#mapping-limit-settings[mapping explosions].
--

*APM Log correlation*::
+
--
If you are using an {apm-agents-ref}/index.html[Elastic APM agent],
you can leverage the {apm-guide-ref}/log-correlation.html[log correlation feature] without any additional configuration.
This lets you jump from the {kibana-ref}/spans.html[Span timeline in the APM UI] to the {observability-guide}/monitor-logs.html[Logs app],
showing only the logs which belong to the corresponding request.
Vice versa, you can also jump from a log line in the Logs UI to the Span Timeline of the APM UI.
--

[float]
==== Additional advantages when using in combination with Filebeat

We recommend shipping the logs with Filebeat.
Depending on the way the application is deployed, you may log to a log file or to stdout (for example in Kubernetes).

Here are a few benefits to this over directly sending logs from the application to Elasticsearch:

*Resilient in case of outages*::
+
--
{filebeat-ref}/how-filebeat-works.html#at-least-once-delivery[Guaranteed at-least-once delivery]
without buffering within the application, thus no risk of out of memory errors or lost events.
There's also the option to use either the JSON logs or plain-text logs as a fallback.
--

*Loose coupling*::
+
--
The application does not need to know the details of the logging backend (URI, credentials, etc.).
You can also leverage alternative {filebeat-ref}/configuring-output.html[Filebeat outputs],
like Logstash, Kafka or Redis.
--

*Index Lifecycle management*::
+
--
Leverage Filebeat's default {filebeat-ref}/ilm.html[index lifecycle management settings].
This is much more efficient than using daily indices.
--

*Efficient Elasticsearch mappings*::
+
--
Leverage Filebeat's default ECS-compatible {filebeat-ref}/configuration-template.html[index template].
--

[float]
=== Field mapping

[float]
==== Default fields

These fields are populated by the ECS loggers by default.
Some of them, such as the `log.origin.*` fields, may have to be explicitly enabled.
Others, such as `process.thread.name`, are not applicable to all languages.
Refer to the documentation of the individual loggers for more information.

|===
|ECS field | Description | Example

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-base.html[`@timestamp`]
|The timestamp of the log event.
|`"2019-08-06T12:09:12.375Z"`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-log.html[`log.level`]
|The level or severity of the log event.
|`"INFO"`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-log.html[`log.logger`]
|The name of the logger inside an application.
|`"org.example.MyClass"`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-log.html[`log.origin.file.name`]
|The name of the file containing the source code which originated the log event.
|`"App.java"`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-log.html[`log.origin.file.line`]
|The line number of the file containing the source code which originated the log event.
|`42`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-log.html[`log.origin.function`]
|The name of the function or method which originated the log event.
|`"methodName"`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-base.html[`message`]
|The log message.
|`"Hello World!"`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-error.html[`error.type`]
|Only present for logs that contain an exception or error.
 The type or class of the error if this log event contains an exception.
|`"java.lang.NullPointerException"`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-error.html[`error.message`]
|Only present for logs that contain an exception or error.
 The message of the exception or error.
|`"The argument cannot be null"`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-error.html[`error.stack_trace`]
|Only present for logs that contain an exception or error.
 The full stack trace of the exception or error as a raw string.
|`"Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NullPointerException\n\tat org.example.App.methodName(App.java:42)"`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-process.html[`process.thread.name`]
|The name of the thread the event has been logged from.
|`"main"`

|===


[float]
==== Configurable fields

Refer to the documentation of the individual loggers on how to set these fields.

|===
|ECS field | Description | Example

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-service.html[`service.name`]
| Helps to filter the logs by service.
|`"my-service"`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-event.html[`event.dataset`]
| Enables the {observability-guide}/inspect-log-anomalies.html[log rate anomaly detection].
|`"my-service.log"`

|===


[float]
==== Custom fields

Most loggers allow you to add additional custom fields.
This includes both, static and dynamic ones.
Examples for dynamic fields are logging structured objects,
or fields from a thread local context, such as `MDC` or `ThreadContext`.

When adding custom fields, we recommend using existing {ecs-ref}/ecs-field-reference.html[ECS fields] for these custom values.
If there is no appropriate ECS field,
consider prefixing your fields with `labels.`, as in `labels.foo`, for simple key/value pairs.
For nested structures, consider prefixing with `custom.`.
This approach protects against conflicts in case ECS later adds the same fields but with a different mapping.

Commit message:

add service.{version,environment} to docs (#75)

docs/intro.asciidoc, after:

[[intro]]
== Introduction

Centralized application logging with the Elastic stack made easy.

[role="screenshot"]
image:https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2163464/62682932-9cac3600-b9bd-11e9-9cc3-39e907280f8e.png[]

[float]
=== What is ECS?

Elastic Common Schema (ECS) defines a common set of fields for ingesting data into Elasticsearch.
For more information about ECS, visit the {ecs-ref}/ecs-reference.html[ECS Reference Documentation].

[float]
=== What is ECS logging?

ECS loggers are plugins for your favorite logging library.
They make it easy to format your logs into ECS-compatible JSON. For example:
[source,json]
----
{"@timestamp":"2019-08-06T12:09:12.375Z", "log.level": "INFO", "message":"Tomcat started on port(s): 8080 (http) with context path ''", "service.name":"spring-petclinic","process.thread.name":"restartedMain","log.logger":"org.springframework.boot.web.embedded.tomcat.TomcatWebServer"}
{"@timestamp":"2019-08-06T12:09:12.379Z", "log.level": "INFO", "message":"Started PetClinicApplication in 7.095 seconds (JVM running for 9.082)", "service.name":"spring-petclinic","process.thread.name":"restartedMain","log.logger":"org.springframework.samples.petclinic.PetClinicApplication"}
{"@timestamp":"2019-08-06T14:08:40.199Z", "log.level":"DEBUG", "message":"init find form", "service.name":"spring-petclinic","process.thread.name":"http-nio-8080-exec-8","log.logger":"org.springframework.samples.petclinic.owner.OwnerController","transaction.id":"28b7fb8d5aba51f1","trace.id":"2869b25b5469590610fea49ac04af7da"}
----

// To do: Update these links to be documentation links
[float]
=== Get started

Refer to the installation instructions of the individual loggers:

* {ecs-logging-dotnet-ref}/setup.html[.NET]
* Go: {ecs-logging-go-zap-ref}/setup.html[zap], {ecs-logging-go-logrus-ref}/setup.html[logrus]
* {ecs-logging-java-ref}/setup.html[Java]
* Node.js: {ecs-logging-nodejs-ref}/morgan.html[morgan], {ecs-logging-nodejs-ref}/pino.html[pino], {ecs-logging-nodejs-ref}/winston.html[winston]
* {ecs-logging-php-ref}/setup.html[PHP]
* {ecs-logging-python-ref}/installation.html[Python]
* {ecs-logging-ruby-ref}/setup.html[Ruby]

[float]
=== Why ECS logging?

*Simplicity: no manual parsing*::
+
--
Logs arrive pre-formatted, pre-enriched and ready to add value, making problems quicker and easier to identify.
No more tedious grok parsing that has to be customized for every application.
--

*Decently human-readable JSON structure*::
+
--
The first three fields are `@timestamp`, `log.level` and `message`.
This lets you easily read the logs in a terminal without needing a tool that converts the logs to plain-text.
--

*Enjoy the benefits of a common schema*::
+
--
Use the Kibana {observability-guide}/monitor-logs.html[Logs app] without additional configuration.

Using a common schema across different services and teams makes it possible create reusable dashboards and avoids {ref}/mapping.html#mapping-limit-settings[mapping explosions].
--

*APM Log correlation*::
+
--
If you are using an {apm-agents-ref}/index.html[Elastic APM agent],
you can leverage the {apm-guide-ref}/log-correlation.html[log correlation feature] without any additional configuration.
This lets you jump from the {kibana-ref}/spans.html[Span timeline in the APM UI] to the {observability-guide}/monitor-logs.html[Logs app],
showing only the logs which belong to the corresponding request.
Vice versa, you can also jump from a log line in the Logs UI to the Span Timeline of the APM UI.
--

[float]
==== Additional advantages when using in combination with Filebeat

We recommend shipping the logs with Filebeat.
Depending on the way the application is deployed, you may log to a log file or to stdout (for example in Kubernetes).

Here are a few benefits to this over directly sending logs from the application to Elasticsearch:

*Resilient in case of outages*::
+
--
{filebeat-ref}/how-filebeat-works.html#at-least-once-delivery[Guaranteed at-least-once delivery]
without buffering within the application, thus no risk of out of memory errors or lost events.
There's also the option to use either the JSON logs or plain-text logs as a fallback.
--

*Loose coupling*::
+
--
The application does not need to know the details of the logging backend (URI, credentials, etc.).
You can also leverage alternative {filebeat-ref}/configuring-output.html[Filebeat outputs],
like Logstash, Kafka or Redis.
--

*Index Lifecycle management*::
+
--
Leverage Filebeat's default {filebeat-ref}/ilm.html[index lifecycle management settings].
This is much more efficient than using daily indices.
--

*Efficient Elasticsearch mappings*::
+
--
Leverage Filebeat's default ECS-compatible {filebeat-ref}/configuration-template.html[index template].
--

[float]
=== Field mapping

[float]
==== Default fields

These fields are populated by the ECS loggers by default.
Some of them, such as the `log.origin.*` fields, may have to be explicitly enabled.
Others, such as `process.thread.name`, are not applicable to all languages.
Refer to the documentation of the individual loggers for more information.

|===
|ECS field | Description | Example

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-base.html[`@timestamp`]
|The timestamp of the log event.
|`"2019-08-06T12:09:12.375Z"`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-log.html[`log.level`]
|The level or severity of the log event.
|`"INFO"`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-log.html[`log.logger`]
|The name of the logger inside an application.
|`"org.example.MyClass"`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-log.html[`log.origin.file.name`]
|The name of the file containing the source code which originated the log event.
|`"App.java"`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-log.html[`log.origin.file.line`]
|The line number of the file containing the source code which originated the log event.
|`42`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-log.html[`log.origin.function`]
|The name of the function or method which originated the log event.
|`"methodName"`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-base.html[`message`]
|The log message.
|`"Hello World!"`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-error.html[`error.type`]
|Only present for logs that contain an exception or error.
 The type or class of the error if this log event contains an exception.
|`"java.lang.NullPointerException"`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-error.html[`error.message`]
|Only present for logs that contain an exception or error.
 The message of the exception or error.
|`"The argument cannot be null"`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-error.html[`error.stack_trace`]
|Only present for logs that contain an exception or error.
 The full stack trace of the exception or error as a raw string.
|`"Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NullPointerException\n\tat org.example.App.methodName(App.java:42)"`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-process.html[`process.thread.name`]
|The name of the thread the event has been logged from.
|`"main"`

|===


[float]
==== Configurable fields

Refer to the documentation of the individual loggers on how to set these fields.

|===
|ECS field | Description | Example

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-service.html[`service.name`]
| Helps to filter the logs by service.
|`"my-service"`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-service.html[`service.version`]
| Helps to filter the logs by service version.
|`"1.0"`

|{ecs-ref}/ecs-service.html[`service.environment`]
| Helps to filter the logs by environment.
|`"production"`


|{ecs-ref}/ecs-event.html[`event.dataset`]
| Enables the {observability-guide}/inspect-log-anomalies.html[log rate anomaly detection].
|`"my-service.log"`

|===


[float]
==== Custom fields

Most loggers allow you to add additional custom fields.
This includes both, static and dynamic ones.
Examples for dynamic fields are logging structured objects,
or fields from a thread local context, such as `MDC` or `ThreadContext`.

When adding custom fields, we recommend using existing {ecs-ref}/ecs-field-reference.html[ECS fields] for these custom values.
If there is no appropriate ECS field,
consider prefixing your fields with `labels.`, as in `labels.foo`, for simple key/value pairs.
For nested structures, consider prefixing with `custom.`.
This approach protects against conflicts in case ECS later adds the same fields but with a different mapping.
